---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: JavaScript 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-01
labels:
  - language
  - JavaScript
---
Coming into universtiy with only C as my only prior language experience and starting off my ICS major with learning Java in the first modules,
I felt really comfortable writing in Javascript so far. I think it definitely is easier and quicker to learn than the languages I studied before.
Comparing it to Java, I enjoy the the easiness it provides with declaring variables, accessing arrays in different ways and writing functions with mutiple return types. 
It definitely is the most forgiving language for me so far. With the little experience I have so far, I think Javascript seems like a very potent programming language for
Software Engineering. I learnt new material in the recent module about simple form functions, different forms of array management and new variables. 
As I go along completing new modules I will update this post. 
The WODs are a great tool this classs is implementing into their material. Although I can see them getting stressul as the semester goes on, I reckon it is tremendously helpful 
to prepare for later coding interviews. 314 is the only class so far that makes you code under time pressure, which I appreciate. I think the more we will complete
throughout this year the more accessible coding assignments will get and the less nervous one will be. Adding onto that, the WODs also provide a strictly set schedule for us,
that makes us deal with the learning material almost every day, which for me will work very well. Completing assignments and having to deal with coding 6 days out of 7 will 
increase the slope of my learning curve. As I can state after two weeks of experience in this course, I think it very well balanced and will be quite profitable for our overall understanding of Software and their implementation.


